docs/API_VERIFICATION.md, before:

# API Implementation Verification

This document verifies that our implementation matches the official Amadeus API documentation.

**Last Verified**: Based on official Amadeus API documentation as of latest update
**Official Documentation**: https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service

---

## 1. Flight Offers Search API

### Official Documentation
- **API Reference**: https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/flights/api-doc/flight-offers-search/api-reference
- **Endpoint**: `GET /v1/shopping/flight-offers`

### Parameters We Use ✅

| Parameter | Our Usage | Official Name | Status |
|-----------|-----------|---------------|--------|
| Origin | `originLocationCode` | `originLocationCode` | ✅ Correct |
| Destination | `destinationLocationCode` | `destinationLocationCode` | ✅ Correct |
| Departure Date | `departureDate` | `departureDate` | ✅ Correct |
| Return Date | `returnDate` | `returnDate` | ✅ Correct |
| Adults | `adults=1` | `adults` | ✅ Correct |
| Max Results | `max=250` | `max` | ✅ Correct |

### Implementation
```python
response = self.amadeus.shopping.flight_offers_search.get(
    originLocationCode=search_origin,      # ✅ Correct parameter name
    destinationLocationCode=destination,   # ✅ Correct parameter name
    departureDate=departure_date,          # ✅ Correct parameter name
    returnDate=return_date,                # ✅ Correct parameter name
    adults=1,                              # ✅ Correct parameter name
    max=250                                # ✅ Correct parameter name
)
```

**Status**: ✅ **All parameters verified and correct**

---

## 2. Flight Inspiration Search API (Flight Destinations)

### Official Documentation
- **API Reference**: https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/flights/api-doc/flight-inspiration-search/api-reference
- **Endpoint**: `GET /v1/shopping/flight-destinations`

### Parameters We Use ✅

| Parameter | Our Usage | Official Name | Status |
|-----------|-----------|---------------|--------|
| Origin | `origin` | `origin` | ✅ Correct |
| Departure Date | `departureDate` | `departureDate` | ✅ Correct |
| View By | `viewBy='DESTINATION'` | `viewBy` | ✅ Correct |
| One Way | `oneWay=False` | `oneWay` | ✅ Correct |

### Optional Parameters Available

| Parameter | Our Usage | Status |
|-----------|-----------|--------|
| `duration` | Not used | Available but not needed |
| `nonStop` | ✅ **NOW USED** | Set to `True` when `max_stops=0` in config |
| `maxPrice` | Not used | Available but not needed |

**Non-Stop Parameter Implementation**:
- When `max_stops: 0` in config, we automatically set `nonStop=True`
- This filters destinations to only those with direct flights available
- More efficient: avoids searching destinations that only have connecting flights

### Implementation
```python
api_params = {
    'origin': origin,                      # ✅ Required, correct
    'departureDate': 'YYYY-MM-DD,YYYY-MM-DD',  # ✅ Optional, correct format
    'viewBy': 'DESTINATION',              # ✅ Optional, correct enum value
    'oneWay': False                       # ✅ Optional, correct
}

# If max_stops=0, add nonStop parameter to filter for direct flights only
if non_stop:
    api_params['nonStop'] = True          # ✅ Optional, correct (now used)

response = self.amadeus.shopping.flight_destinations.get(**api_params)
```

**Status**: ✅ **All parameters verified and correct**

### Response Structure ✅

According to official documentation, the response contains `FlightDestination` objects with:
- `type`: "flight-destination" ✅
- `origin`: IATA code ✅
- `destination`: IATA code ✅
- `departureDate`: Date string ✅
- `returnDate`: Date string ✅
- `price`: Price object with `total` and `currency` ✅
- `links`: Links object ✅

**Our Parsing**:
```python
for destination_info in response.data:
    destination_code = destination_info.get('destination')  # ✅ Correct field name
```

**Status**: ✅ **Response parsing verified and correct**

---

## 3. Airport Nearest Relevant API

### Official Documentation
- **API Reference**: https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/airport/api-doc/airport-nearest-relevant
- **Endpoint**: `GET /v1/reference-data/locations/airports`

### Parameters We Use ✅

| Parameter | Our Usage | Official Name | Status |
|-----------|-----------|---------------|--------|
| Latitude | `latitude` | `latitude` | ✅ Correct |
| Longitude | `longitude` | `longitude` | ✅ Correct |
| Radius | `radius` | `radius` | ✅ Correct |

### Implementation
```python
response = self.amadeus.reference_data.locations.airports.get(
    latitude=lat,      # ✅ Correct parameter name
    longitude=lon,     # ✅ Correct parameter name
    radius=radius_km   # ✅ Correct parameter name
)
```

**Status**: ✅ **All parameters verified and correct**

---

## Summary

| API | Parameters | Response Parsing | Status |
|-----|------------|------------------|--------|
| **Flight Offers Search** | ✅ All correct | ✅ Correct | ✅ Verified |
| **Flight Inspiration Search** | ✅ All correct | ✅ Correct | ✅ Verified |
| **Airport Nearest Relevant** | ✅ All correct | ✅ Correct | ✅ Verified |

**Overall Status**: ✅ **All APIs verified against official documentation**

---

## Notes

1. **Flight Inspiration Search API** uses cached data that may not include all airports, especially in test environment
2. **Flight Offers Search API** provides real-time data and is the source of truth for actual flight availability
3. All parameter names match the official Amadeus API documentation exactly
4. Response structures are parsed according to the official API specification

---

## References

- [Amadeus for Developers](https://developers.amadeus.com/)
- [Flight Offers Search API Reference](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/flights/api-doc/flight-offers-search/api-reference)
- [Flight Inspiration Search API Reference](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/flights/api-doc/flight-inspiration-search/api-reference)
- [Airport Nearest Relevant API Reference](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/airport/api-doc/airport-nearest-relevant)

Commit message:

docs: Update all documentation to reflect separate max_stops_person1 and max_stops_person2 parameters
- Update README.md configuration examples and parameter table
- Update PROJECT_EXPLANATION.md with new parameter structure
- Update FLIGHT_RESULTS_EXPLANATION.md to mention separate parameters
- Update api_usage_explanation.md to reflect new parameter logic
- Update API_VERIFICATION.md with correct parameter references
- All documentation now correctly references max_stops_person1 and max_stops_person2
- Clarify that each person can have different stop preferences
- Update nonStop parameter logic to use minimum of both values

docs/API_VERIFICATION.md, after:

# API Implementation Verification

This document verifies that our implementation matches the official Amadeus API documentation.

**Last Verified**: Based on official Amadeus API documentation as of latest update
**Official Documentation**: https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service

---

## 1. Flight Offers Search API

### Official Documentation
- **API Reference**: https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/flights/api-doc/flight-offers-search/api-reference
- **Endpoint**: `GET /v1/shopping/flight-offers`

### Parameters We Use ✅

| Parameter | Our Usage | Official Name | Status |
|-----------|-----------|---------------|--------|
| Origin | `originLocationCode` | `originLocationCode` | ✅ Correct |
| Destination | `destinationLocationCode` | `destinationLocationCode` | ✅ Correct |
| Departure Date | `departureDate` | `departureDate` | ✅ Correct |
| Return Date | `returnDate` | `returnDate` | ✅ Correct |
| Adults | `adults=1` | `adults` | ✅ Correct |
| Max Results | `max=250` | `max` | ✅ Correct |

### Implementation
```python
response = self.amadeus.shopping.flight_offers_search.get(
    originLocationCode=search_origin,      # ✅ Correct parameter name
    destinationLocationCode=destination,   # ✅ Correct parameter name
    departureDate=departure_date,          # ✅ Correct parameter name
    returnDate=return_date,                # ✅ Correct parameter name
    adults=1,                              # ✅ Correct parameter name
    max=250                                # ✅ Correct parameter name
)
```

**Status**: ✅ **All parameters verified and correct**

---

## 2. Flight Inspiration Search API (Flight Destinations)

### Official Documentation
- **API Reference**: https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/flights/api-doc/flight-inspiration-search/api-reference
- **Endpoint**: `GET /v1/shopping/flight-destinations`

### Parameters We Use ✅

| Parameter | Our Usage | Official Name | Status |
|-----------|-----------|---------------|--------|
| Origin | `origin` | `origin` | ✅ Correct |
| Departure Date | `departureDate` | `departureDate` | ✅ Correct |
| View By | `viewBy='DESTINATION'` | `viewBy` | ✅ Correct |
| One Way | `oneWay=False` | `oneWay` | ✅ Correct |

### Optional Parameters Available

| Parameter | Our Usage | Status |
|-----------|-----------|--------|
| `duration` | Not used | Available but not needed |
| `nonStop` | ✅ **NOW USED** | Set to `True` when both `max_stops_person1=0` and `max_stops_person2=0` in config |
| `maxPrice` | Not used | Available but not needed |

**Non-Stop Parameter Implementation**:
- When both `max_stops_person1: 0` and `max_stops_person2: 0` in config, we automatically set `nonStop=True`
- This filters destinations to only those with direct flights available
- More efficient: avoids searching destinations that only have connecting flights

### Implementation
```python
api_params = {
    'origin': origin,                      # ✅ Required, correct
    'departureDate': 'YYYY-MM-DD,YYYY-MM-DD',  # ✅ Optional, correct format
    'viewBy': 'DESTINATION',              # ✅ Optional, correct enum value
    'oneWay': False                       # ✅ Optional, correct
}

# If both max_stops_person1=0 and max_stops_person2=0, add nonStop parameter to filter for direct flights only
if non_stop:
    api_params['nonStop'] = True          # ✅ Optional, correct (now used)

response = self.amadeus.shopping.flight_destinations.get(**api_params)
```

**Status**: ✅ **All parameters verified and correct**

### Response Structure ✅

According to official documentation, the response contains `FlightDestination` objects with:
- `type`: "flight-destination" ✅
- `origin`: IATA code ✅
- `destination`: IATA code ✅
- `departureDate`: Date string ✅
- `returnDate`: Date string ✅
- `price`: Price object with `total` and `currency` ✅
- `links`: Links object ✅

**Our Parsing**:
```python
for destination_info in response.data:
    destination_code = destination_info.get('destination')  # ✅ Correct field name
```

**Status**: ✅ **Response parsing verified and correct**

---

## 3. Airport Nearest Relevant API

### Official Documentation
- **API Reference**: https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/airport/api-doc/airport-nearest-relevant
- **Endpoint**: `GET /v1/reference-data/locations/airports`

### Parameters We Use ✅

| Parameter | Our Usage | Official Name | Status |
|-----------|-----------|---------------|--------|
| Latitude | `latitude` | `latitude` | ✅ Correct |
| Longitude | `longitude` | `longitude` | ✅ Correct |
| Radius | `radius` | `radius` | ✅ Correct |

### Implementation
```python
response = self.amadeus.reference_data.locations.airports.get(
    latitude=lat,      # ✅ Correct parameter name
    longitude=lon,     # ✅ Correct parameter name
    radius=radius_km   # ✅ Correct parameter name
)
```

**Status**: ✅ **All parameters verified and correct**

---

## Summary

| API | Parameters | Response Parsing | Status |
|-----|------------|------------------|--------|
| **Flight Offers Search** | ✅ All correct | ✅ Correct | ✅ Verified |
| **Flight Inspiration Search** | ✅ All correct | ✅ Correct | ✅ Verified |
| **Airport Nearest Relevant** | ✅ All correct | ✅ Correct | ✅ Verified |

**Overall Status**: ✅ **All APIs verified against official documentation**

---

## Notes

1. **Flight Inspiration Search API** uses cached data that may not include all airports, especially in test environment
2. **Flight Offers Search API** provides real-time data and is the source of truth for actual flight availability
3. All parameter names match the official Amadeus API documentation exactly
4. Response structures are parsed according to the official API specification

---

## References

- [Amadeus for Developers](https://developers.amadeus.com/)
- [Flight Offers Search API Reference](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/flights/api-doc/flight-offers-search/api-reference)
- [Flight Inspiration Search API Reference](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/flights/api-doc/flight-inspiration-search/api-reference)
- [Airport Nearest Relevant API Reference](https://developers.amadeus.com/self-service/category/airport/api-doc/airport-nearest-relevant)
